{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;
\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red255\green0\blue0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11960\viewh17780\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 turbine2d.example - Turbine Cascade, steady, MARVS model\

\b0 Corresponds to the turbine cascade example in paper AIAA-2010-4314, "An RSM/EVM Flow/Heat Transfer Model Applied to Pre-Transitional and Turbulent Boundary Layers" by Joan G. Moore and John Moore. The calculations for the AIAA paper used the MARV Reynolds stress model, implemented in code MEFP. Here, the MARVS variation of the Reynolds stress model is set up for the new code, M4D. The EVM model for heat transfer is the same.\
Geometry: Langston turbine cascade 2d.\
Conditions correspond to the data of Butler et al. (2001): Re=66,000, turbulence: Tu=10%,  L=0.23 chord, (at l.e. no blade row)\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf2 Unix instructions
\b0 \cf0  to run the turbine cascade example\
Bring up a terminal window and cd to turbine2d.example, then \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 mkdir out\
../../a.m4d < in.Re66kTu10 >  out/print        \cf3  (1) calculate flow with MARVS model\cf2 \
../../a.m4d < in.heat >  out/printheat            \cf3  (2) solve energy Eq.\cf2 \
../../a.m4d < in.plots  > out/printplots           \cf3  (3) plot results\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf4 Input\cf0 /\cf5 Output\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 (1) The primary input file,\cf6  in.Re66kTu10,\cf0  uses several other input files for specific tasks.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf4 inn.grid164x86\cf0  - set up calculation grid, \cf4 grid.vpic.015.164.86.2\cf0 , block pressure solution, and other grid related initializations.\
\cf4 inn.init.ButlerTu\cf0  - initialize variables for Butler conditions. Set outflow boundary condition.\
\cf4 inn.iter.uvwpmarvs 
\b \cf7 *\cf3 , \cf7  
\b0 \cf0 one iteration of the steady flow procedure to solve momentum, continuity and the MARVS model. Uses:\
	\cf4 inn.newcv\cf0  
\b \cf7 * 
\b0 \cf0 - to reset the control volumes and related arrays.\
	\cf4 inn.iter.marvs 
\b \cf7 *
\b0 \cf0  - 1 iteration to update Reynolds stress variables.\
	\cf4 inn.cont 
\b \cf7 *
\b0 \cf4  \cf0 - additional velocity updates from continuity.\
	\cf4 inn.analysis10.50 
\b \cf7 *
\b0 \cf0  - to analyze changes over 10 and 50 iterations. \
	\cf4 inn.iter.output\cf0  - to dump results to \cf5 out/u#ITER\cf0  and plot using:\
		\cf4 inn.plotconv 
\b \cf7 * 
\b0 \cf0 - convergence plots, \cf5 out/conv.gif\cf0  and \cf5 out/convm.gif\cf0   and lineplot file \cf5 convline.\cf0 \
Input files inn.iter.uvwpmarvs, inn.cont, inn.analysis10.50, inn.iter.output all contribute to the convergence file \cf5 out/converge\cf0  started in in\cf3 .Re66kTu10.\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf7 \
* 
\b0 Identical to the files in backstep.example. For standard 2d or 3d steady MARVS calculations with fixed inlet conditions.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
(2) The primary input file,\cf4  in.heat,\cf0  uses \cf4 inn.grid164x86\cf0  and \cf4 inn.init.ButlerTu \cf3 as above and:\
\cf6 inn.heatsetup \cf3 - to set up the turbulent energy equation. Gives file \cf5 out/walldist\cf3 .\
\cf6 inn.heatsolve\cf3  - to solve the energy equation for the temperature distribution. Adds to the convergence file \cf5 out/convheat\cf3 .\
\cf6 inn.heatsetuplam\cf3  - \cf0 to set up a laminar energy equation (but using the turbulent flow).\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf4 inn.nusselt\cf0  - plot laminar and turbulent surface Nusselt numbers. Gives \cf5 out/linenusselt\cf0 , \cf5 out/nusselt.gif\cf0  and \cf5 out/nusseltle.gif\cf0 .\
\
(3) The primary input file,\cf4  in.plots,\cf0  uses \cf4 inn.grid164x86\cf0  and \cf4 inn.init.ButlerTu \cf0 as above and:\
inn.plotgrid - to plot the grid. Gives \cf5 out/grid.gif, out/gridle.gif, out/gridte.gif\cf0 .\
inn.plotq - to plot qturb. Gives \cf5 out/qturbbar.gif, out/qturb.gif, out/qturble.gif, out/qturbte.gif.\cf0 \
inn.plotptloss - to plot the total pressure loss. Gives \cf5 out/ptlossbar.gif, out/ptloss.gif, out/ptlossle.gif, out/ptlosste.gif\cf0 .\
inn.plotvectors - replots the total pressure loss with velocity vectors added. Gives \cf5 out/ptlossbar.gif, out/ptlossv.gif, out/ptlosslev.gif, out/ptlosstev.gif\cf0 , and a trailing edge plot which adds the grid as well, \cf5 out/ptlosstegv.gif\cf0 .\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 Compare results with those obtained by jgm.\cf4 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Post-processing of output by jgm
\b0 \
Delete out/u100 thru out/u400. \cf2 mv out out.jgm\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 \
}