{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue255;\red128\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;
\red255\green0\blue0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12040\viewh12760\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Backstep Example
\b0 \
	Baclward facing step. Steady 2-d turbulent flow using the MARVS Reynolds stress model. Conditions correspond to the data of Kasagi et al. (1993). Calculation as in Moore and Moore (2009) slide 2.8, but using code M4D, a coarser grid and the MARVS model.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf2 Unix instructions
\b0 \cf0  to run the backstep example\
(1) Set up the fully developed flow inlet conditions. Bring up a terminal window and cd to chan2d.fdf.example, then \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 mkdir out\
../../a.m4d < in.marvsRd9550 > out/print\
mv out out.Rd9550\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 (2) Using the results from (1) set up an initial estimate of the flow properties for the backstep. cd to backstep.example, then\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf2 mkdir out\
../../a.m4d < in.varinit0 > out/print\
mv out out0\cf0 \
\
(3) Run the calculation\
in directory chan2d.fdf.example  run the following to set up fdf inlet\
\cf2 mkdir out\
../../a.m4d < in.backstep > out/print\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf3 Input\cf0 /\cf4 Output\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b0 \cf0 (1) see doc.rtf in dir chan2d.fdf.example\
(2) The primary input file, \cf3 in.varinit0\cf0 , uses as input the calculation grid, \cf3 geom.108.36\cf0 , and the results from (1), \cf3 ../chan2d.fdf.example/out.Rd9550/varinit\cf0 , \cf3 ../chan2d.fdf.example/out.Rd9550/dpdx\cf0 , and gives \cf4 out/varinit\cf0 , \cf4 out/dpdx\cf0 , and \cf4 out/U1init.gif\cf0 .\
(3) The primary input file, \cf3 in.backstep\cf0 , uses several other input files for specific tasks.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf3 inn.grid108x36\cf0  - set up calculation grid, \cf3 geom.108.36\cf0 , block pressure solution, and other grid related initializations.\
\cf3 inn.init.from.out0\cf0  - initialize variables using results of (2). Set outflow boundary condition.\
\cf3 inn.iter.uvwpmarvs 
\b \cf5 *
\b0 \cf3  \cf0 - one iteration of the steady flow procedure to solve momentum, continuity and the MARVS model. Uses:\
	\cf3 inn.newcv 
\b \cf5 *
\b0 \cf0  - to reset the control volumes and related arrays.\
	\cf3 inn.iter.marvs 
\b \cf5 *
\b0 \cf0  - 1 iteration to update Reynolds stress variables.\
	\cf3 inn.cont 
\b \cf5 *
\b0 \cf3  \cf0 - additional velocity updates from continuity.\
	\cf3 inn.analysis10.50 
\b \cf5 *
\b0 \cf0  - to analyze changes over 10 and 50 iterations. \
	\cf3 inn.iter.output\cf0  - to dump results to \cf4 out/u#ITER\cf0  and plot using:\
		\cf3 inn.plotconv 
\b \cf5 * 
\b0 \cf0 - convergence plots, \cf4 out/conv.gif\cf0  and \cf4 out/convm.gif\cf0  .\
		\cf3 inn.plotq\cf0  - qturb, \cf4 out/qdUmax#ITER,gif\cf0  and color bar, \cf4 out/qbar.gif\cf0 .\
Input files inn.iter.uvwpmarvs, inn.cont, inn.analysis10.50, inn.iter.output all contribute to the convergence file \cf4 out/converge\cf0  started in in.backstep.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf5 * 
\b0 Identical to the files in turbine2d.example. For standard 2d or 3d steady MARVS calculations with fixed inlet conditions.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural
\cf0 Compare results with those obtained by jgm.\cf3 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\ql\qnatural\pardirnatural

\b \cf0 Post-processing of output by jgm
\b0 \
Delete out/u100 thru out/u400. Move dirs. out0 and out to dir. out.jgm.\
}